---
date: "2016-01-31T20:22:19-05:00"
draft: false
title: "Why Hugo?"
categories:
- Migration to Hugo
tags:
- Octopress
- Hugo
- Update
---

As you may have noticed (well no one reads this so I am fine), I have moved from [Octopress][octopress-link] to [Hugo][hugo-link]. I have been trying to make this change for a while but due to laziness and some other matters it did not happen. I am going to talk about why I decided on the move and what I did. In then ext post I will talk about my migration from Octopress to Hugo.

[octopress-link]: http://octopress.org
[hugo-link]: https://gohugo.io

<!--more-->

### Octopress the Bad Parts

1. Octopress had become so slow. Although I do not have many blog posts, they are usually long and contain images and code. Also it does not support incremental generation which means that every time I wanted to push my blog, I had to re-create the blog from scratch. I could live with this because I only do new posts every once in a while so waiting a couple of minutes before deploying the website is not inconvenient.
2. My main problem was during content creation. Every time I wanted to look at my changes I had to wait 30 seconds and then refresh the page manually to see the changes. This became very inconvenient. I started creating my posts in a local markdown editor (with preview support) and then copy/pasting it into the actual markdown file and looking at the result. However, modifying posts still took a lot of time and effort.
3. Octopress was written in Ruby. I am not a developer but I have written Ruby code (some of which are closer in your everyday lives than they appear `;)`) but as you can see in my [imgpopup plugin post]({{< ref "2015-07-26-image-popup-and-octopress.markdown" >}} "Image Popup and Octopress"), creating plugins for Octopress was a pain for me.

### Octopress the Good Parts
Hafiz the famous ancient Persian poet said "عیب می جمله چو گفتی هنرش نیز بگو" which basically means that you should talk about the strengths [of something] after you have ranted about the problems.

1. Clean theme: The Octopress classic theme is great. I really like it.
2. It does what it claims. You can install it using a gem and set up your posts and it is probably good to go. Most probably you will not encounter a bug.
3. Posts can be written in Markdown.
4. It has a lot of plugins for everyday use out of the box. There are plugins for code, images, videos and tweets.

Does this mean that Octopress is a bad static website generator? Not really but it did not work for me.

### What I Wanted

1. Be reasonably fast.
2. Code and image caption plugins. Most static website generators supports code highlight by default but I really like code and image captions. Either it should be supported or I could create my own plugin.
3. Have the Octopress classic theme or a similar theme.
4. Allows me to migrate my posts from Octopress. In other words, support writing posts in Markdown. This is supported by almost all static website generators.

I could go to [Jekyll][jekyll-link] and almost everything would work without problems but creating plugins would be a pain. After all Octopress is built on top of Jekyll. Some call it a fancy front-end for Jekyll but I disagree.

I shopped around looking for static website generator and my final choices were [Pelican][pelican-link] and [Hugo][hugo-link].

#### Pelican
This [post](https://jakevdp.github.io/blog/2013/05/07/migrating-from-octopress-to-pelican/) titles "Migrating from Octopress to Pelican" by Jake Vanderplas was really helpful and that was one of the reasons I almost chose Pelican and even modified most of my posts to work in Pelican.

1. Pelican is reasonably fast. I was amazed after I changed something in my post and saved and the page in browser auto-refreshed with changes within a few seconds.
2. It is written in Python. Nowadays I write most of my code in Python but creating the plugins were a pain. I fiddled with them for a few days and gave up after I could not create what I wanted.
  * There is a figure with caption plugin called [better figures and images](https://github.com/getpelican/pelican-plugins/tree/master/better_figures_and_images).
  * There is no code caption plugin. I tried creating my own but I got lost. The reason was that because the code is not a one liner (it has an opening tag and closing tag with code int between), I had to create a Markdown pre-processor. There is an [Include_code plugin](https://github.com/getpelican/pelican-plugins/blob/master/liquid_tags/include_code.py) that creates a highlighted code block with caption but it only supports pulling from a file. That would not work for me.
3. Someone has already done it. https://github.com/duilio/pelican-octopress-theme
4. I only needed to modify some tags but it mostly worked.

Pelican was a really good fit. However, the pains that I had to go through in order to create a codeblock with captions plugin (Markdown preprocessor what?), made me skip this and go for Hugo.

##### Hugo
I will talk about why I chose Hugo and the migration in length in the next post. But for now let's see if Hugo is a good fit for my requirements.

1. It is reasonably fast. Similar to Pelican when I modified a Markdown file, the browser auto-refreshed and I could see the changes in a few seconds.
2. Hugo had neither. However it supports [shortcodes](https://gohugo.io/extras/shortcodes/) and I could create both in a few minutes. I will talk about what I did and how I did it in the migration post.
3. Hugo does not have the classic Octopress theme and this was a big weakness compared to Pelican. But as you can see I made my own. It was a good exercise in learning about the inner workings of Hugo and `css`.
4. Not only Hugo supports Markdown, it has an [import Jekyll](https://gohugo.io/commands/hugo_import_jekyll/) module which works for Octopress. It seems like a good number of people have moved to Hugo from Jekyll because there are a good number Jekyll themes ported to Hugo. For a list of Hugo themes you can visit [this repo](https://github.com/spf13/hugoThemes/). 

### Conclusion
Hugo fit my criteria better than Pelican (or any other static website generator that I encountered during my search). It did not have the Octopress classic them but I created my own. In the next blog post I will talk about my migration from Octopress to Hugo.

<!-- links -->
[jekyll-link]: https://jekyllrb.com/
[pelican-link]: http://blog.getpelican.com/
